.TH RDSQUASHFS "1" "May 2019" "inspect SquashFS filesystems" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rdsquashfs \- tool to examine or uncompress SquashFS filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rdsquashfs
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR] \fI\,<squashfs-file>\/\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
View or extract the contents of a squashfs image.
.PP
The following options can be used to specify what operation to perform. One
of those has to be present:
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fR, \fB\-l\fR <path>
Produce a directory listing similar to \fBls \-l\fR for a given path in
the SquashFS image.
.TP
\fB\-\-cat\fR, \fB\-c\fR <path>
If the specified path is a regular file in the image, extract it and dump
its contents to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-\-xattr\fR, \fB\-x\fR <path>
If the inode that the specified path resolves to has extended attributes, dump
them as key value pairs to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-\-unpack\-path\fR, \fB\-u\fR <path>
Unpack the specified sub directory from the image. To unpack everything,
simply specify /.
.TP
\fB\-\-describe\fR, \fB\-d\fR
Produce a file listing from the image compatible with the format consumed by
gensquashfs.
.PP
The following options can be used to control the behaviour of the specified
operation:
.TP
\fB\-\-unpack\-root\fR, \fB\-p\fR <path>
If used with \fB\-\-unpack\-path\fR, this is where the
data is unpacked to. If used with \fB\-\-describe\fR, this
is used as a prefix for the input path of
regular files.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-dev\fR, \fB\-D\fR
Skip device special files when parsing the filesystem tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sock\fR, \fB\-S\fR
Skip socket files when parsing the filesystem tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-fifo\fR, \fB\-F\fR
Skip named pipes files when parsing the filesystem tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-slink\fR, \fB\-L\fR
Skip symbolic links when parsing the filesystem tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-empty\-dir\fR, \fB\-E\fR
Skip directories that would end up empty after applying the above rules.
.PP
The following options are specific to unpacking files from a SquashFS image
to disk:
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sparse\fR, \fB\-Z\fR
Do not create sparse files. Always unpack sparse files by
writing blocks of zeros to disk.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-xattr\fR, \fB\-X\fR
Set the extended attributes from the SquashFS image.
.TP
\fB\-\-set\-times\fR, \fB\-T\fR
Set the create and modify timestamps of the file to the mtime
from the SquashFS image.
.TP
\fB\-\-chmod\fR, \fB\-C\fR
Change permission flags of unpacked files to
those store in the SquashFS image.
.TP
\fB\-\-chown\fR, \fB\-O\fR
Change ownership of unpacked files to the
UID/GID set in the SquashFS image.
.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR, \fB\-q\fR
Do not print out progress while unpacking.
.PP
Other options:
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h\fR
Print help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR, \fB\-V\fR
Print version information and exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
gensquashfs(1), sqfs2tar(1), sqfsdiff(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by David Oberhollenzer.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2019 David Oberhollenzer
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
