.TH SQFS2TAR "1" "June 2019" "sqfs2tar" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sqfs2tar \- turn a SquashFS image into a tar archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqfs2tar
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR...] \fI\,<sqfsfile>\/\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Quickly and painlessly turn a SquashFS filesystem image into a tar archive
that can then be examined and processed by any tool that can work on tar
archives. The resulting archive is written to stdout.
.PP
Possible options:
.TP
\fB\-\-subdir\fR, \fB\-d\fR <dir>
Unpack the given sub directory instead of the filesystem root. Can be specified
more than once to select multiple directories. If only one is specified, it
becomes the new root of the archive filesystem tree.
.TP
\fB\-\-keep\-as\-dir\fR, \fB\-k\fR
If \fB\-\-subdir\fR is used only once, don't make the subdir the archive root,
instead keep it as prefix for all unpacked files. Using \fB\-\-subdir\fR more
than once implies \fB\-\-keep\-as\-dir\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-xattr\fR, \fB\-X\fR
Discard extended attributes from the SquashFS image. The default behavior is
to copy all xattrs attached to SquashFS inodes into the resulting tar archive.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-skip\fR, \fB\-s\fR
Abort if a file cannot be stored in a tar record instead of skipping it.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h\fR
Print help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR, \fB\-V\fR
Print version information and exit.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The output format is pre-POSIX ustar using GNU extensions where necessary.
Experimentation determined that this is most widely supported by activeley
used tar implementations (besides GNU tar), even more than the newer POSIX
format with PAX extensions.

If any file or directory is encountered that cannot be converted, it is
skipped and a warning is written to stderr. Unless the \fB\-\-no\-skip\fR
option is set, which aborts processing if a file cannot be converted.

This is mainly affects socket files which are supported by SquashFS but not by
POSIX tar, GNU tar or PAX.

Since the tar format contains a sequence of files with absolute names, it has
no direct concept of a tree or an unnamed root node. Consequently, meta data
from the SquashFS root inode is lost.
.SH EXAMPLES
Turn a SquashFS image into a tar archive:
.IP
sqfs2tar rootfs.sqfs > rootfs.tar
.TP
Turn a SquashFS image into a gzip'ed tar archive:
.IP
sqfs2tar rootfs.sqfs | gzip > rootfs.tar.gz
.TP
Turn a SquashFS image into an LZMA2 compressed tar archive:
.IP
sqfs2tar rootfs.sqfs | xz > rootfs.tar.xz
.SH SEE ALSO
rdsquashfs(1), tar2sqfs(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by David Oberhollenzer.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2019 David Oberhollenzer
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
